The Voyager 1 spacecraft is the most distant artificial object of the earth, and the fastest.
But at the moment it is moving towards us.
Relatively speaking.
This is the control room for NASA's Deep Space Network.
And the scientists here still listen to the signals sent by Voyager.
Deep Space Network is a collection of antennas all over the world
that we use to track deep space missions.
We provide commands for the spacecraft, "turn left at the next bend"
Those things, for example,
a little bit more complicated than that.
Turn on the instruments, turn off the instruments, software updates.
The most important reason for sending the thing into space
is to get the scientific data back. And so the instruments take pictures,
infrared photos and measure the Voyager different particles.
We need that data and to distribute it to the scientists.
The Deep Space Network's 3 stations cover the entire sky.
Each mission more than 30,000 kilometers away from Earth
is visible to at least one station, at all times.
Geostationary orbit, where we hold the most communication satellites
is further away than that.
We only have three branches all over the world.
Madrid in Spain, Goldstone here in California and the Canberra branch in Australia.
Usually we do not follow things that go over the pool
because the type of missions that we do in deep space
are usually in the ecliptic.
If you look at the solar system, where the sun is
and where the planets are that move around the sun
they all seem to be in a flat plane.
That launch across the plane of the solar system, over the ecliptic
is the reason that Voyager is currently coming closer to earth.
Yes, Voyager always moves away from the sun, but sometimes the earth's orbit means
that we are going in the same direction, only faster.
So we come closer.
Of course we are drawn back into our elliptical orbit again
so that it will be smoothed if we go the other way.
Regarding the control of spacecraft, I think for example with Voyager,
probably downlink every day
because again, there is a lot of good data, but if it comes with 160 bits per second,
it takes a long time to retrieve that data from the spacecraft.
The signal must in a sense be above the noise level for us to see it.
In the first place we try to filter out the noise as much as possible
from a frequency point of view.
My signal takes this bit of spectrum in frequency.
I do not want more noise than what is there.
I want to correlate the signal that comes down
with what I think the signal looks like.
You have to take advantage of what you know about the signal
and use these characteristics as well as possible to filter out the noise.
Voyager 1 carries radioisotope thermogenerators, RTGs.
They are driven by radioactive decay.
And there is enough power to make it last until about 2025.
Then the vessel will go dark, and carry a message forward in the interstellar space
for ... well, we do not know where, or when, or even who.
When enough light is reflected off,
you would be able to see it with a telescope, but it is so far away, and so weak,
without any radio signal coming from Voyager,
there is no way that we, the DSN, could follow it.
And so I think that's the end when it gets dark.
Thank you to the whole team at NASA, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
and here at the Deep Space Network.
Look at the description for more about them, and about their missions.